Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sA quasi-steady-state alternating current operation assisted by lower hybrid wave (LHW) was achieved on a HT-7 superconducting tokamak with plasma current of I-p = 125 kA, line-averaged density of 1.5 x 10(19) M-3, electron temperature of T-e = 500 eV and 30-50 s plasma duration. Plasma current was sustained and smoothly transferred from one direction to the other without loss of ionization. Plasma position control, LHW assistance, strong gas puffing and good wall condition are the key issues to have a smooth transition of plasma current. Our modelling results show that current reversal equilibrium configuration with two oppositely flowing currents in the high-field-side and the low-field-side during current reversal exists. This is in agreement with experimental measurements.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sAn overview of the progress with experiments in the HT-7 during 2003-4 is presented. The H-mode, negative reversed shear and high l(i) operational scenarios were investigated for quasi-steady-state high performance plasma discharges. Ion Bernstein wave (IBW) heating at 30 MHz produced a typical edge H-mode plasma. Transport in both electron and ion channels were reduced in the outer half portion of the plasma. H-mode was produced in off-axis lower hybrid current drive (LHCD) plasmas by launching a lower hybrid wave (LHW) with a greater parallel refractive index, N-vertical bar vertical bar(peak), of 3.1. The improved confinement status in such plasma discharges could be sustained for more than 400 tau(E). A high inductance, l(i), plasma was created using a fast plasma current ramp down and sustained by central LHCD and IBW heating for a duration of > 1 s with a strongly peaked electron temperature profile. The highest central electron temperature obtained was 4.5 keV. An increase in the energy confinement time with l(i) was observed. It was found that the IBW heating could improve the plasma confinement at the same l(i) if part of the LHW power was replaced by IBW. Stationary internal transport barriers with normalized performance H-89 beta(N) > 1-3 were obtained with combined injection of LHW and IBW for a duration of several hundred energy confinement times in the weak negative magnetic shear (RS). Increasing the total injection power to 1 MW did not degrade the plasma confinement significantly in the RS operational scenario. Long pulse discharges were performed, using three feedback controls for the plasma current and position, the central line-averaged electron density and the magnetic swing flux of the transformer. The longest plasma discharge, with a duration of 240 s, T-e(0) similar to 1 keV and the central electron density > 0.8 x 10(19) m(-3) was achieved in 2004. The wall saturation and refreshment (wall pumping) were first observed in such long pulse discharges. A fully LHW current driven plasma without using ohmic current in the central solenoid coils was sustained for 80 s. The main limitation for the pulse length was due to the recycling, which caused an uncontrollable rise in the electron density.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sThe Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST) has demonstrated, for the first time, long-pulse divertor plasmas over 400 s, entirely driven by lower hybrid current drive (LHCD), and further extended high-confinement plasmas, i.e. H-modes, over 30 s with predominantly LHCD and advanced lithium wall conditioning. Many new and exciting physics results have been obtained in the quest for long-pulse operations. The key findings are as follows: (1) access to H-modes in EAST favours the divertor configuration with the ion del B drift directed away from the dominant X-point; (2) divertor asymmetry during edge-localized modes (ELMs) also appears to be dependent on the toroidal field direction, with preferential particle flow opposite to the ion del B drift; (3) LHCD induces a striated heat flux (SHF), enhancing heat deposition away from the strike point, and the degree of SHF can be modified by supersonic molecule beam injection; (4) the long-pulse H-modes in EAST exhibit a confinement quality between type-I and type-III ELMy H-modes, with H-98(y,H-2) similar to 0.9, similar to type-II ELMy H-modes.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sLower hybrid wave (LHW)-plasma coupling and lower hybrid current drive (LHCD) experiments in divertor, including single-null and double-null, and limiter configurations were conducted systematically in EAST. A maximum power for launched LHW is 1.4 MW and the plasma current with LHCD is about 1 MA. It is indicated that the coupling is best in limiter configuration, then in single-null one, while worst in double-null one. Study in current drive efficiency by a least squares fit shows that there is no obvious difference in drive efficiency between the double-null and the single-null cases, whereas the efficiency is a slightly lower in the limiter case. The effect of plasma density on the current drive efficiency is due to the influence of density on impurity concentration.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sUsing a 2 MW 2.45 GHz lower hybrid wave (LHW) system installed in experimental advanced superconducting tokamak, we have systematically carried out LHW-plasma coupling and lower hybrid current drive experiments in both divertor (double null and lower single null) and limiter plasma configuration with plasma current (I-p) similar to 250 kA and central line averaged density (n(e)) similar to 1.0-1.3 x 10(19) m(-3) recently. Results show that the reflection coefficient (RC) first is flat up to some distance between plasma and LHW grill, and then increases with the distance. Studies indicate that with the same plasma parameters, the best coupling is obtained in the limiter case (with plasma leaning on the inner wall), followed by the lower single null, and the one with the worst coupling is the double null configuration, explained by different magnetic connection length. The RCs in the different poloidal rows show that they have different coupling characteristics, possibly due to local magnetic connection length. Current drive efficiency has been investigated by a least squares fit with N-//(peak)=2.1, where N-//(peak) is the peak value of parallel refractive index of the launched wave. Results show that there is no obvious difference in the current drive efficiency between double null and lower single null cases, whereas the efficiency is somewhat small in the limiter configuration. This is in agreement with the ray tracing/Fokker-Planck code simulation by LUKE/C3PO and can be interpreted by the power spectrum up-shift factor in different plasma configurations. A transformer recharge is realized with similar to 0.8 MW LHW power and the energy conversion efficiency from LHW to poloidal field energy is about 2%. (C) 2011 American Institute of Physics. [doi: 10.1063/1.3624778]Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sTo satisfy various requirements of different physics experiments, a new power modulation method of the lower hybrid wave (LHW) has been developed in Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST), including the development of a control source combining software and hardware. Such modulation system is realized by the main positive-intrinsic-negative diode switch located at the oscillator. The LHW modulation system has been installed and tested, demonstrating that the modulation parameters can be controlled flexibly. The maximal modulation frequency is about 10 kHz, which is limited by the hardware circuit speed. The system has been successfully used to study the influence of LHW on the performances of plasma. Under the modulation of LHW, strong mitigation of edge-localized modes (ELMs) has been observed, and ELM pace-making technique has been demonstrated. Further experimental studies with the modulation system will be continued in EAST.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sThree dimensional (3D) divertor particle flux footprints induced by the lower hybrid wave (LHW) have been systematically investigated in the EAST superconducting tokamak during the recent experimental campaign. We find that the striated particle flux (SPF) peaks away from the strike point (SP) closely fit the pitch of the edge magnetic field line for different safety factors q(95), as predicted by a field line tracing code taking into account the helical current filaments (HCFs) in the scrape-off-layer (SOL). As LHW power increases, it requires the fuelling to be increased e.g. by super molecular beam injection (SMBI), to maintain a similar plasma density, which may be attributed to the pump-out effect due to LHW, and may thus be beneficial for EAST steady state operations. The 3D SPF structure is observed with a LHW power threshold (P-LHW similar to 0.9 MW). The ratio of the particle fluxes between SPF and outer strike point (OSP), i.e. Gamma(ion,SPF)/Gamma(ion,OSP), increases with the LHW power. Upon transition to divertor detachment, the particle flux at the main OSP decreases, as expected, however, the particle flux at SPF continues increasing, in contrast to the RMP-induced striations that vanish with increasing divertor density. In addition, we also find that the in-out asymmetry of the 3D particle flux footprint pattern exhibits a clear dependence on the toroidal field direction (B x del B down arrow and B x del B up arrow). Experiments using neon impurity seeding show a promising capability in 3D particle and heat flux control on EAST. LHW-induced particle and heat flux striations are also present in the H-mode plasmas, reducing the peak heat flux and erosion at the main strike point, thus facilitating long-pulse operation with a new steady-state H-mode over 60 s being recently achieved in EAST.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sThe snake perturbations around q = 2 surface with strong poloidal asymmetry are frequently observed on EAST after the injection of high-Z impurities. A new pair of Beta-induced Alfven eigenmodes (BAEs) with lower frequencies also come along with the 2/1 snake fluctuations, in addition to the conventional BAE pair that accompany the pure 2/1 tearing modes (TMs) on EAST, which have already been investigated (Xu et al 2013 Plasma Phys. Control. Fusion 55 065002). The radial structures of the intensities of the snake perturbations and the two BAE pairs arc mapped out for the first time, indicating that these BAE quartet are discrete modes over the radial extension and are situated slightly outside the annulus of TM activities but centered at slightly different positions. The constant frequency spectra of the BAEs are explained as the eigen-solutions of the radial differential equation for the global modes, and the rich multiplicity of BAEs is attributed to various levels of BAE continuum splittings when more detailed physics are taken into consideration.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sRecent Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST) experiments have successfully demonstrated a long-pulse steady-state scenario with improved plasma performance through integrated operation since the last IAEA FEC in 2016. A discharge with a duration over 100 s using pure radio frequency (RF) power heating and current drive has been obtained with the required characteristics for future long-pulse tokamak reactors such as good energy confinement quality (H-98y2 similar to 1.1) with electron internal transport barrier inside rho < 0.4, small ELMs (frequency similar to 100-200 Hz), and good control of impurity and heat exhaust with the tungsten divertor. The optimization of X-point, plasma shape, the outer gap and local gas puffing near the low hybrid wave (LHW) antenna were integrated with global parameters of B-T and line-averaged electron density < n(c)> for higher current drive efficiency of LHW and on-axis deposition of electron cyclotron heating in the long-pulse operation. More recently, a high beta(P) RF-only discharge (beta(P) similar to 1.9 and beta(N) similar to 1.5, < n(c)>/nGW similar to 0.80, f(bs) similar to 45% at q(95) similar to 6.8) was successfully maintained over 24 s with improved hardware capabilities, demonstrating performance levels needed for the China Fusion Engineering Test Reactor steady-state operation. A higher energy confinement is observed at higher beta(P) and with favorable toroidal field direction. Towards the next goal (>= 400 s long-pulse H-mode operations with similar to 50% bootstrap current fraction) on EAST, an integrated control of the current density profile, pressure profile and radiated divertor will be addressed in the near future.Guosheng Xu/sÐì¹úÊ¢/sThe phenomenon of multifaceted asymmetric radiation from the edge (MARFE) is investigated with impurity gas puff from the upper divertor on the Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST). A typical process in which dense radiation region in the vicinity of the X point (X-point MARFE) further evolves into MARFE on the high field side (wall MARFE) after the plasma makes a transition from H-mode to L-mode confinement is observed in discharges with the impurity gas seeding. The electron density distribution and evolution in the divertor volume are measured by means of spectroscopy. It is observed in the experiments that the final position of MARFE is related to the ion backward difference B drift direction. After the phase difference of n = 1 resonant magnetic perturbation (RMP) change from 90 degrees to 270 degrees, MARFE begins to appear on the high field side, which may be caused by the density pump-out induced by RMP. At the same heating power, the density threshold for MARFE formation is somewhat higher in the Ne seeding discharge than in the Ar seeding discharge. This may be attributed to the fact that the divertor radiation fraction, P-rad,P-div/P-rad,P-main, in the Ne seeding discharge is lower than that in the Ar seeding discharge. In addition, MARFE is successfully suppressed by total radiated energy feedback control in radiative divertor experiments. Therefore, radiation feedback control may play a vital role in avoiding major disruption induced by impurity radiation in radiative divertor experiments.